#summary Log of changes to this module on a version-by-version basis.

----

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

----

= v1.5.0 RC1 (2008-03-02) - alek.dembowski =
  * Added installer scripts
  * Updated to use osCommerce v2.2 RC 2a
  * Lots of code cleanup
  * Cleaned up documentation
  * Added beta support for google product search feeds
  * Extracted optional configuration into a separate administration screen

= v1.4.5_CCS (2007-09-27) - ropu =
  * Added Carrier Calculated Shipping Support (CCS)!! (http://code.google.com/apis/checkout/developer/Google_Checkout_XML_API_Carrier_Calculated_Shipping.html)
  * Added Sandbox and Production id/key config in Admin UI
  * Added SANDBOX string to the payment method in order page for orders processed with GC using sandbox.
  * Added a warning under the GC Button when in Sandbox mode.
  * Added a warning in the Payment Modules page in the Admin UI when in Sandbox mode.    
  * Disable merchant Calculation Shipping methods from the Admin UI by setting Default value to 0.
  * Added Google Checkout Custom Order States that match Google Checkout ones. (Check INSTALLATION, an SQL must be run to update old GC order status)
  * Check for non-valid state changes
  * Allow product categories to use GC as checkout system
  * Added Cart Expiration
  * Check for correct configure.php defines to avoid shipping module inclusion errors
  * Added a configuration to disable GC button for specific product categories (double check http://checkout.google.com/seller/policies.html#4)
  * Send Zencart's Credentials to new customers created with GC
  * If !AutoCharge is enabled in GC, a whole Digital purchase is processed without merchant intervention.
  * Use updated PHP Sample code
  * Changed PHP Sample code parser classes names to avoid complicts (XMLParser -> CG_XMLParser, XMLBuilder -> CG_XMLBuilder)
  * Added Cancel Order feature.
  * Added shipping_methods_uk.php with UK pre-configured shipping methods.
  * Admin UI configuration regroupment
  * Added Recommended Default Values to Shipping_generator\

= v1.4beta1 (2007-07-17) - ropu =
  * Refactor new-order-notification handling
  * Merged the GC return page with the OSC default one, checkout_success.php used as continue-shopping URL. Buyer will return with his logged in to OSC
  * Digital Delivery support
  * Support Google Refunds and Cancellations
  * Fixed GC Invoicing issue, items will be added to the order details
  * If the customers e-mail address already exists in OSC then add the order placed to their account instead of creating a new customer
  * If the GC exits in OSC but uses a different email then add the order placed to their account instead of creating a new customer.
  * Check if new customers have `<email-allowed>` and activate newsletters 
  * OT tax support
  * Existing OSC customer accounts are updated when GC orders processed
  * No more need to know admin folders name
  * Add GC Module Version Control to avoid mix of configured and installed modules errors
  * Moved Shipping quotes definition from includes/modules/payment/googlecheckout.php to googlecheckout/shipping_methods.php
  * Added OSC Order# to the GC Order when state changes from Pending to Processing
  * Added index.html to googlecheckout/`*` dirs.
  * Upgraded to use OSCommerce v2.2RC1

= v1.4 alpha (2007-06-20) - ropu =
  * Refactor all code using PHP Sample Code as the base library (under googlecheckout/library)
    * Handles Logging, added log levels (error, request, response)
      * Configuration from UI (comming soon), needed??
    * Handles Basic authentication, add support for IIS (See TROUBLESHOOTING)
    * Handles all XML parsing and building (New xml parsed used)
  * Added OT support (low order fees, group discounts and any other custom OT module)
    * feedback needed. Calculating tax for this, still an issue.
  * Add warning messages when GC button is disabled.
  * Add stack message in Admin UI with GC orders state changes and errors
  * Added configuration to also use OSC email system for GC orders
  * Added shipping generator (googlecheckout/shiping_generator/) (optional)
  * Added a metric tester for shipping times feedback (optional)
  * Added 3rd party tracking
  * Added a coustom Continue shopping url with GC bought items.
  * Moved logs to a .htacces protected dir (googlecheckout/logs)
  * Added Correct HTTP status (2xx, 4xx, 5xx) return when errors occurrs with the correct message
  * All strings are defined in the language include (only english right now)
  * Use DEFAULT_CURRENCY as the currency in GC cart, not buyers session one
  * Added version number to all files
  * Added GC Module Installed and Configured Version check.
  * Slipt README and CHANGELOG


= v1.3RC2 (2007-04-18) - ropu =
  * Support for UK merchants: http://code.google.com/apis/checkout/developer/release_notes.html (apr13)
  * Docs update
  * Minor bug fix
  * Added Shipping Generator Tool in the stardard package (Optional)
  * Flat rate shipping bug fixed
  * Improved tax and shipping restrictions

= v1.3RC1 (2007-04-10) - ropu =
  * Add tracking data to the Admin UI Orders
  * Fixed SSL issue with Google Analytics feature
  * International Shipping Features
  * Restricting Shipping Options for Post Office (P.O.) Box Addresses feature
  * International Tax Features
  * Selecting a Rounding Policy for Tax Calculations
  * Fixed Tax for zones
  * Fixed Tax for products
  * Added support for All Areas Zones
  * Add a configuration to disable Google Checkout Button when are virtual good in the cart (double check http://checkout.google.com/seller/policies.html#4)
  * Disable multisocket Option :(

= v1.2RC3 (2007-03-05) - ropu =
  * Fix gray button when Tax Class selected bug (Thx BlessIsaacola)

= v1.2 (2007-02-26) - ropu =
  * Add multisocket feature for merchant-calculations (alfa)(optional)
  * Different algorithm to retrieve quotes
  * Add Google Analytics Support
  * Add support for PHP CGI installations
  * Add in UPSXML methods by default
  * Add user and password for Google Checkout buyers
  * Items retrieved from Merchant-private-item-data instead of session.
  * Many bug fixes

= v1.1.0b4 (2007-01-12) - ropu =
  * Fix `<tax-table-selector>` strict validation.

= v1.1.0b3 (2007-01-10) - rszrama =
  * Bugfix compilation so people stop downloading the old code till 1.1.0 comes out!
  * Read v1-1-0b2.txt for more information.

= v1.0.4 (2006-04-12) - ropu =
  * Add order-state-change, risk-information and charge-amount notification into the Admin UI
  * Fix Shopping cart not obtained from session. See TROUBLE SHOOTING.

= v1.0.3 (2006-17-11) - ropu =
  * Add support for Merchant Calculated Shipping Rates.
  * Fixed minor bugs in responsehandler.php and orders.php files
  * Change the XML parser and builder
  * Removed getallheader() function
  * Fixed wrong Qty in Admin UI
  * Fixed modules not saving their settings
  * Fixed Notify Customer option

= v1.0.2 (2006-18-10) - Google Checkout team =
  * Fixed minor bugs in responsehandler.php and orders.php files

= v1.0.1b (2006-05-10) - Google Checkout team =
  * Step-by-step installation instructions included.

= v1.0.1 (2006-27-09) - Google Checkout team =
  * Updated the original module to run on either PHP4 or PHP5.

= v1.0.0 (2006-26-09) - Google Checkout team =
  * Initial release. 
 

  
   
   
   
   